Total knee arthroplasty, or replacement,
is a surgical procedure
in which a diseased
or damaged knee joint
is replaced with an artificial joint.
Your knee is made up of
the lower end of your thighbone,
or femur;
the upper end of the shinbone,
or tibia;
and the kneecap or patella.
Most replacement joints consist of
a metal femoral component;
a plastic tibial component
held in a metal tray;
and a plastic patellar component.
The procedure begins with
an incision on the front of the knee
and the kneecap is moved to the side.
Damaged bone and cartilage at
the end of the femur are cut away
and the bone is measured and cut
to fit into the femoral component,
which is then attached.
Next, damaged bone and cartilage
at the top of the tibia
re cut away and the bone is measured
and cut to fit into the tibial component.
A metal tray is fit against the
flat-cut top of the bone
with its stem inserted into the bone.
A plastic insert is snapped
into the tibial tray.
The femoral component slides
on it when the knee is bent.
The damaged portion of the kneecap
may be replaced by
a mushroom shaped prosthesis.
The resectioned patella and prosthesis
are attached to other components.
Measurements and tests to ensure
balance and movement
are done during and after surgery.
Knee replacement can significantly
reduce pain and improve function.
Like all surgery, there are associated risks.
Physical therapy and realistic expectations
are important for successful recovery.